Indexing is incredibly resource intensive especially when Windows is freshly installed. There are plenty of other resource intense processes such as updates that might also be going on too. It really sucks not knowing what's really happening and I do wish Microsoft would make this kind of activity more visible. But they don't. About your only hope in seeing what's really happening would be to watch the task manager (and task bar) and read a few logs.
The last thing I might point at is hardware. So are you sure your hard drive isn't really the problem - or maybe a forgotten flash drive isn't?! You said you had to jolt the system to unstick something. So that suggests to me that something might not be plugged in correctly or that there's a failing/intermittent connection somewhere. It could be anything from a bad Ethernet jack to another drive somewhere which could be anything from a flash drive to a NAS storage device or even a different HDD partition. Then again, it could be a RAM allocation problem or even something as stupid as RAID (in the BIOS). So check that stuff too.
That said, I would also suggest NOT using McAfee or Norton! Those programs are especially resource intense and don't really do much of a better job than Microsoft's own free Security Essentials does. In fact, McAfee and Norton don't exactly totally uninstall themselves either which may be all the more reason to avoid them. And depending on who you ask, some experts might even tell you that MSE is better! So don't load down the system with extra junk like redundant virus protection. Just install/enable/update MSE and your firewall and you should be good to go.
One other thing you may want to look at is if you have anything else on your network. For example, if you have a file server or another desktop computer running then you may be getting attacked by a virus/worm from inside your own network. Some fancy network attached printers might also be able to do this too (don't laugh). I don't know if that's something you really need to worry about but it has been known to happen. So the best advice there might be to shut everything else down at least until you can get Windows up and running.
Also, don't just install over a previous Windows installation or do the OS update process either. I'm not quite sure what you mean by "complete wipe" but if you want to truly reinstall a "fresh" version of Windows then you will need to completely re-partition and re-format the entire hard drive - not just wipe the Windows (aka C:) drive.